# budget_cli

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

A console script written in the Python programming language that helps
you to calculate the total budget for a given period between two dates.

The console script and its documentation were created with
[nbdev](https://github.com/fastai/nbdev).

## Install

``` sh
pip install budget
```

(Note: The application has not been released to PyPI yet. Use
`pip install -e .` at the root folder of the local cloned repository.)

## How to use

The simplest usage example:

``` python
! budget 1 20230813 20230902
```

    18.0

This means that if the daily budget is 1 dollar, and if we are budgeting
for only six days in each week (i.e. only from Monday to Saturday), the
total budget for the period from 13 August 2023 to 2 September 2023
would come to 18 dollars.

We can change the budgeting to be for all seven days of each week by
specifying the `--days_in_week` option with a value of 7:

``` python
! budget 1 20230813 20230902 --days_in_week 7
```

    21.0

In this case, the total budget for the period becomes 21 dollars.

The default value of the `days_in_week` argument is 6.

We can also specify the daily weights to apply. For example:

``` python
! budget 1 20230813 20230902 --weights '[1,2,1,1,1,1,0]'
```

    21.0

Here, the specified `--weights` means that we want to apply a multiplier
of 1 on every Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday; a
multiplier of 2 on every Tuesday; and, a multiplier of 0 on every
Sunday. The total budget would be 21 dollars.

**Note**: When the `--weights` option is used, it will supersede the
`--days_in_week` option. Also, the `--weights` option must be a string
representation of a list with exactly seven elements, and where each of
them has to be either an integer, or a real number.

Finally, we can also specify a different daily budget to use for each
day of the week with the `--amounts` option:

``` python
! budget 1 20230813 20230902 --amounts '[1,2,1,1,1,1,0]' --days_in_week 7
```

    21.0

**Note**: When the `--amounts` option is used, it will supersede the
`budget` amount (the ‘1’ in the above example) that we have specified.
The `--amounts` option must be a string representation of a list with
exactly seven elements, and where each of them has to be either an
integer, or a real number.

If you need help on the usage, you can type the following command
(excluding the exclamation mark) in your terminal:

``` python
! budget -h
```

    usage: budget [-h] [--days_in_week DAYS_IN_WEEK] [--weights WEIGHTS]
                  [--amounts AMOUNTS]
                  budget start_date end_date

    Return the total budget for the calculation period from the start date to the
    end date (inclusive).

    positional arguments:
      budget                       The budget amount per day
      start_date                   The start date of the calculation period; it is
                                   expected to be in the ISO 8601 format
      end_date                     The end date of the calculation period; it is
                                   expected to be in the ISO 8601 format

    options:
      -h, --help                   show this help message and exit
      --days_in_week DAYS_IN_WEEK  The number of consecutive days in a week
                                   (starting from Monday) to include in the budget
                                   (default: 6)
      --weights WEIGHTS            The weight to apply for each day of a week, and
                                   specified as '[x0, .. , xn]', where x0..xn are
                                   numbers; this will override --days_in_week
      --amounts AMOUNTS            The budget amount for each day of a week, and
                                   specified as '[x0, .. , xn]', where x0..xn are
                                   numbers; the budget amount per day that was
                                   specified will be ignored
